# Guo 2008 dataset

## Origin
    
    Using support vector machine combined with auto covariance to predict protein–protein interactions from protein sequences
    Guo et al., 2008
    https://doi.org/10.1093/nar/gkn159

## Statistics
    
    Original published in the paper
        pairs 11188 PPIs including (yeast_pairs.tsv)
            positive 5594 PPIs
            negative 5594 PPIs
        proteins 2497 sequences (yeast_dict.tsv for dictionary mapping from id to sequence)
        


## Strategy published in the paper

The PPI data was collected from Saccharomyces cerevisiae core subset of database of interacting proteins (DIP database), version DIP_20070219. The reliability of this core subset has been tested by two methods, expression profile reliability (EPR) and paralogous verification method (PVM). At the time of doing the experiments, the core subset contained 5966 interaction pairs. The protein pairs that contained a protein with <50 amino acids were removed and the remaining 5943 protein pairs comprised the final positive data set. All proteins in the data set were aligned using the multiple sequence alignment tool, cd-hit program. The aligned result shows that among the 5943 protein pairs, the overwhelming majority of them (5594 PPIs) have <40% pairwise sequence identity to one another. Although there are only 349 pairs with ≥40% identity in the training data set, the classifier will possibly be biased to these homologous sequence pairs.

Since the non-interacting pairs were not readily available, three strategies for constructing negative data set were used in order to compare the effects of different training data sets on the performance of the method. The first strategy has been described by Shen and colleagues in detail. The non-interacting pairs were generated by randomly pairing proteins that appeared in the positive data set. Here the negative data set based on this method is called Prcp. The second is based on such an assumption that proteins occupying different subcellular localizations do not interact. The subcellular localization information of the proteins in the positive data set was extracted from Swiss-Prot (http://www.expasy.org/sprot/). The proteins without subcellular localization information and those denoted as ‘putative’, ‘hypothetical’ were excluded. The remaining proteins were grouped into eight subsets based on the eight main types of localization—cytoplasm, nucleus, mitochondrion, endoplasmic reticulum, golgi apparatus, peroxisome, vacuole and cytoplasm&nucleus. Each subset contained 10 proteins at least. The non-interacting pairs were generated by pairing proteins from one subset with proteins from the other subset. It must be pointed out that proteins from cytoplasm subset and nucleus subset cannot be paired with those from cytoplasm&nucleus subset. Here the negative data set based on subcellular localization information is called Psub. The two strategies must meet three requirements: (i) the non-interacting pairs cannot appear in the whole DIP yeast interacting pairs, (ii) the number of negative pairs is equal to that of positive pairs and (iii) the contribution of proteins in negative set should be as harmonious as possible (24,26).

As a comparison, the third strategy was used for creating non-interacting pairs composed of artificial protein sequences. It has been demonstrated that if a sequence of one interacting pair is shuffled, then the two proteins can be deemed not to interact with each other (30). Thus, the negative data set was prepared by shuffling the sequences of right-side interacting pairs with k-let (k = 1,2,3) counts using the Shufflet program (31).    
## My alteration implementing this dataset


      ## There is no need for alteration in this case, I got the dataset from repository seq_ppi of paper Chen et al., 2019 (https://doi.org/10.1093/bioinformatics/btz328)

