# Pan 2010 dataset

Origin: 
    Large-Scale Prediction of Human Protein-Protein Interactions from Amino Acid Sequence Based on Latent Topic Features
    Pan et al., 2010
    https://doi.org/10.1021/pr100618t

Statistics:
    Original published in the paper
        pairs 73110 PPIs including (pan_orig.tsv)
            positive 36 630 PPIs
            negative 36 480 PPIs
    
    Proposed
        ## File listing all id from pan 2010 dataset in different databases: list_id_pan_orig.txt
        ## total non-identical 10364 id:  9231 refseq id, 895 uniprot id, 238 ena id
        
        ## After query id list from uniprot swissprot database ver 2022 March to get dictionary from database_id to uniprot id, we obtain some dictionary mapping from corresponding databases to uniprot
            uniprot: 894 id (loss 1 to original)
            refseq: 7726 id (loss 1505 to original)
            ena: 205 id (loss 33 to original)
        

        # Filtering the original pan dataset with available id in databases, we obtain pan dataset with
        pairs 61891 PPIs (loss 11219 pairs without id available) including (pan_pairs.tsv)
            positive 27593 PPIs (loss 9037 to original)
            negative 34298 PPIs (loss 2182 to original)
        

        # Mapping file from id to sequence: pan_dict.tsv, has 8347 ids covering all ids in pan transformed dataset

        # Spliting shuffled dataset into train (55891 pairs or 90% dataset, pan_train.tsv) and test dataset (6000 pairs, pan_test.tsv)

    



            

        

        

        






**Strategy published in the paper**

The positive PPI data set was downloaded from the human protein references database (HPRD, June 2007 version). This version of HPRD contains 38 788 protein-protein pairs of experimentally verified PPIs from 9630 different human proteins. After eliminating self-interactions and duplicate interactions from the data set, we finally obtained 36 630 unique positive protein-protein pairs. The names of protein pairs from the positive data set are given in the supplementary materials A at http://www.csbio.sjtu.edu.cn/ bioinf/LR_PPI/Data.htm. One of the common ways to construct a golden negative control data set is to consider two proteins with different cellular compartments not interacting. In this study, we followed this idea and constructed a benchmark negative data set from Swiss-Prot database of version 57.3 released on 26- May-2009 according to the following criteria: 
    
    1. Only those sequences annotated with “human” in the ID field were collected because this study focuses on the prediction of human PPIs. 
    2. Sequences annotated with ambiguous or uncertain subcellular location terms, such as “potential”, “probable”, “probably”, “maybe”, or “by similarity”, were excluded. 
    3. Sequences annotated by two or more locations were excluded because of lack of the uniqueness. 
    4. Sequences annotated with “fragment” were excluded; also, sequences with less than 50 amino acid residues were removed because they might just be fragments. After strictly following the above steps, we finally obtained 1773 human proteins from 6 subcellular localizations, that is, cytoplasm, nucleus, endoplasmic reticulum, Golgi apparatus, lysosome, and mitochondrion. 
            
   Then the noninteracting pairs are generated by randomly pairing the proteins from different subcellular localizations. We also downloaded a negative data set with experimental evidence from ref 35 (negatome in this reference), where only human protein pairs are selected. By combining the above two sources, the final whole negative data set consists of 36 480 noninteraction protein pairs. The names of protein pairs and their sequences from the negative data set are given in online supplementary material B at http:// www.csbio.sjtu.edu.cn/bioinf/LR_PPI/Data.htm (not available at now, 6/3/2022?)
    
